What are the OECD
Principles on AI?
Last update: 2 March 2020
Artificial intelligence is still in its early days and policymakers
are still finding their feet. To what extent can they, and should
they, encourage this powerful new technology, and how can they
address any risks? The OECD Principles on AI can help. They
promote artificial intelligence (AI) that is innovative and
trustworthy and that respects human rights and democratic
values.
They were adopted by OECD member countries when they approved the OECD
Council Recommendation on Artificial Intelligence on 22 May 2019. As well as
OECD member countries, Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Peru and
Romania have also adhered to the AI Principles.
On 9 June 2019, the G20 adopted human-centred AI Principles that draw from the
OECD AI Principles.
The five OECD AI Principles
The council recommendation identifies five complementary values-based
principles for the responsible stewardship of trustworthy AI:
1. AI should benefit people and the planet by driving inclusive growth, sustainable
development and well-being.
2. AI systems should be designed in a way that respects the rule of law, human
rights, democratic values and diversity, and they should include appropriate
safeguards–for example, enabling human intervention where necessary–to
ensure a fair and just society.
3. There should be transparency and responsible disclosure around AI systems to
ensure that people understand AI-based outcomes and can challenge them.
4. AI systems must function in a robust, secure and safe way throughout their life
cycles and potential risks should be continually assessed and managed.
5. Organisations and individuals developing, deploying or operating AI systems
should be held accountable for their proper functioning in line with the above
principles.
What can governments do?
1 www.oecdobserver.org | What are the OECD Principles on AI?
Consistent with these value-based principles, the OECD also provides five
recommendations to governments:
1. Facilitate public and private investment in research & development to spur
innovation in trustworthy AI.
2. Foster accessible AI ecosystems with digital infrastructure and technologies
and mechanisms to share data and knowledge.
3. Ensure a policy environment that will open the way to deployment of
trustworthy AI systems.
4. Empower people with the skills for AI and support workers for a fair transition.
5. Co-operate across borders and sectors to progress on responsible stewardship
of trustworthy AI.
What’s next?
A future AI Policy Observatory will provide evidence and guidance on AI metrics,
policies and practices to help implement the principles, and constitute a hub to
facilitate dialogue and share best practices on AI policies. For more on AI see
https://www.oecd.org/going-digital/ai/
References
See the Recommendation here: https://legalinstruments.oecd.org/en/
instruments/OECD-LEGAL-0449 https://legalinstruments.oecd.org/en/
instruments/OECD-LEGAL-0449
2 www.oecdobserver.org | What are the OECD Principles on AI?
